Hi.
We didn't this lecture we going to see what a gift is.
And we have talked about it before right.
So this is a way to do a version control.
But we haven't really leverage it.
We haven't really utilized it in our projects.
So in order to do that we're going to create a project and every going to do some version control on
that project to see how we can leverage it really.
And in order to do that let me just go over here and create a new project.
It's going to be a single view app and in fact we're not going to write so much code in this project.
We're just going to do some exemplary codes and we're going to focus on Virgin control sides of things.
So I'm going to call does get test project and I'm going to hit next and I'm going to put this under
my IRS complete folder.
So let me make this into a full screen and tell you a little bit about version control.
So version control I really mean to control the versions.
So it means that create some check points or for your app.
So this is like a save point when you play a game.
So if you die or if you fail at game you can go to your save point rather than going back to the beginning
of the app.
OK.
So if you break something if you make your project in a real bad shape you can go back to your original
check point to south from your check point rather than starting from scratch maybe you can think that
I can just delete the code that I have written or I can do something like comment Z to take it back
but you will come across some situations that you cannot do that.
For example if I write print get that I can easily hit command Z to take it back and then I can write
whatever I want.
But eventually you will find yourself in a place that you want to go back to the previous stage rather
than doing a comment.
Easy because for example re going to work with external libraries.
OK.
We're going to add some others people's code in our own projects and it may have some bad effect on
our projects so maybe we want to take it back but we cannot do comment Z in a situation like that we
have to have a version control system that lets us to setting all the things that we have done so far
to make our project work again and in order to do that actually ex code provides us some version control
tools as well.
But we're not going to use them we're just going to use another tool called source tree because it's
much more convenient than the X codes source version control and if you come over here to source control
you will see some menus like committing pushing pulling and we're going to see what our dose so commits
means you commit the change that you want.
You're accepting the change that you have made so far.
Okay.
Pushing means pushing the code to an external environment like get hub and we're going to see what I
get.
Hub is and pooling means pooling this source code from the get hub.
OK.
And we're going to use another tool called source tree in order to do all of this stuff as I said before
because it's much more convenient and it doesn't work only on AOS.
You can work on great projects on source tree as well.
So if you go to source tree app that's com so you will see that this is a website providing the source
tree app.
And this is completely free.
So you can use it on your own.
You can just do the version control on the source tree app safely and you can connect this to your GitHub
account as well.
So all you have to do is just come over here to source three app dot com and you can click on the download
free icon and it will let you download this off to you agree to day or terms.
OK.
So you can see a download and will download it for you.
It's fairly a small file something like 80 megabytes so it won't take much to complete this and after
you download you don't have to do even as set up.
You can just run it on your own you can just put it on your applications folder and call it from there.
So let me close this and let me put it and as you can see I have downloaded it before.
And the other download has completed as well but I have downloaded the same thing so I'm going to move
this to trash.
I'm going to take this and put it on my applications folder so that I can reach it.
I have already an older version of source tree so I'm going to replace this.
OK.
And after that come over here to your applications and find source 3 to double click on it.
If you cannot find it for any reason you can always come to your keyboard and his comment space to open
the search bar and you can write source tree to find the related application.
So since I have found this in my applications I'm going to double click on this.
It will ask me if I really want to open and I'm going to say yes then I can close this.
And as you can see there is a list of the files that I have heard before.
So most probably you're seeing a blank screen right now and it really doesn't matter I'm going to show
you how to import projects on here later on.
But for right now let me show you.
You can connect this source tree to your GitHub account.
Let's go to preferences here.
OK and there is an account's tap here as you can see it.
It's actually connected to my get hub account but I believe this is a very old connection.
So this picture of mine is from like eight years ago I don't know.
So if I double click on those e I can see these authentication type.
I can see the protocol over here being a CPS let me remove this so I can show you how to connect it
to on your own.
So if I click ad and choose get hub from here I can choose the all up.
And if I say click connect and it will connect the YouTube account for me.
But in order to do that you have to have a get hub account and I'm going to show you how you can get
one.
Don't worry.
And after you get it you can just click connect the account and choose a P.S..
And it will connect it for you and you can just say save.
So this is now connected.
And in order to use this sorcery you don't have to have get how a count is.
But I believe it's a good way to store your all gifts and project information.
So go to get hub dot com.
It will bring a page like this.
You can sign up here in a free way by choosing a user name email and password.
This completely free you can just sign up from here.
And after that you can do this connection thing that I have shown you.
It may ask you for a password.
Okay.
Just create your account and just give your password to your safari.
And if sorcery asks for a password as well just provide your GitHub password so that it can connect
to your account.
So that's it.
That's how you connect your source tree to your GitHub account.
And again you don't have to have a github account in order to have local version control.
So let me show you what I mean.
If you save your project and if you find your project folder you can drag and drop the project directly
into source tree to import this project into source tree.
Okay.
Just choose wherever you want.
And let me close this and as you can see there is a number appearing here.
It means that there is one change in one of the files in the folder.
If you open it it will show you the change actually.
So green means we added something and red means we deleted something.
OK.
Since I have added this line it shows in green.
So let me go to my project and delete this comment line from here.
And I'm going to save this by comment s and then go over here and if I double click one more time.
As you can see we now see the deleted line and added line together.
So we're seeing every change that we made in the project.
So this is kind of cool right.
We can track what we're doing here in FISA commit.
Remember committing is accepting the changes that we have made so far and we have to write that comment
in the comment like the changes that we have made.
So this has to be some explicit explanation that we can understand later on.
So for right now I'm just going to go for first comment.
But this is not a very good way to commit.
So maybe something like I have added print.
Get line here would be a good comment message.
OK.
If I say OK it will commit the changes.
It means that now this is committed is accepted by me.
So if I go to this monster branch then I can see the first version the initial commit and the first
commit that I have made.
So there are two check points right now.
So let me add another one let me add another line here saying print get two and save this if I come
back to source tree.
And as you can see I have that commits appearing up in here if I go to File Status or here I can see
the print you two is added as well.
So let's do another comment and say second comment for example as a comment.
And now if I go to muster then I will see the first comment.
The initial comment and the second comment.
So the initial comment will be the original files.
As you can see we can see these old files here including the info that Peel is the app delegate and
view controller itself.
We can see all the files and folders and in the first and second commit we see the changed files like
we've controller.
So what is I want to delete this too.
Rather than I just want to go back to get one.
I can't come over here and double click on this and just say OK.
OK and this will make this a hat and it means that we're working on this comet right now.
And as you can see get too is deleted from here.
So whether I added a new line or I added a new repository or just and whole the external library on
my project it really doesn't matter I can't go back to previous commit and double click on that one
to go forward to the next comment as about so I can come back and forward the thing comments using this
double click and I can just I use this I can just utilize this gets versioning methods in order to save
some projects that I have messed up in real life examples.
So let's stop here and within the next lecture we going to see how to utilize GitHub as.